**This is the first actual project completed by Me and My fellow Teammates. We developed this project for a national-level hackathon,namely (Smart India Hackathon). Our objective was to create a water footprint calculator specifically for agricultural products. The problem statement was provided by the Ministry of Jal Shakti. **
The exact problem statement was as follows:
_Background The water footprint measures the amount of water used to produce each of the goods and services we use. The water footprint helps us understand for what purposes our limited freshwater resources are being consumed. The impact of it depends on where the water is taken from and when, if it comes from a place where water is already scarce, the consequences can be significant and require action. Detailed Description The increase in the amount of non-available water due to pollution and scarce groundwater level has added more water footprints, at the community as well as at the personal levels. An increased · water footprint directly affects the health and future of the citizens. Preventing severe drought in water-stressed areas is only going to be possible if water is used with more care and efficiency, this can be achieved if we have readily available data of water footprints. Expected Solution Hence, by using digital technologies like AI, Big Data, Block chain etc. and computer languages, a user friendly app or website may be developed which can provide the water footprints of different items/ final products we eat by feeding little inputs like name, or just by scanning through camera like Google lens. The app should support local languages; this will ensure the pan India usage and sensitize the people about water footprints of items they use in daily life._
In Addition to making a Calculator we also made a Facts page To Spread Awareness Regarding Water conservation
